Okay I have a question now about the patch buildPatchSystemPrompt we use for all of our patch providers, which is designed to edit / change an array of text nodes received from our Lexical editor - maintaining their order.

However, looking at the prompt:

return [
    'You are editing a Lexical document by updating text-node strings.',
    'You will receive an array of text nodes with numeric IDs and their current text.',
    '',
    'RULES:',
    '- Return EXACTLY one edit per input node ID (same count, same order).',
    '- Do not add, remove, or reorder IDs.',
    '- Update the text field for each node according to the user instruction.',
    '',
    'HANDLING EXISTING CONTENT:',
    '- Preserve the structure: do not merge or split text across nodes.',
    '- Apply the instruction to each node independently.',
    '- If a node is empty in the input, keep it empty unless the instruction explicitly requires filling it.',

    ... my question is - whether this is correct for cases where we want to translate text from an existing Lexical document, into another language, like from English to French, or even from English to Chinese. 

Patching text nodes is much more efficient than generating a new document, however, will a language translation request like this consider the context of words across nodes? For example if a word is in italic in the middle of a sentence, in Lexical this will create three nodes, the text node before the italic word, the italic word node, and the text node after the italic word - for one paragraph. Would a language translation consider the context of the italic word within the context of the paragraph? Or translate it in isolation?

The value in a text node-based generation, is that we can retrieve and modify text nodes for the complete editor state for Lexical, while preserving the document structure. For example we may have a document that has several complex and nested elements, like inline images with captions, or special layouts. By acting on only the text nodes, and preserving the node order, we can very efficiently act on the text for document. 

So far at least, in tests, if I've asked one of the providers to rephrase a document - in a silly tone for example - it appears to have worked - I suspect because each text node is long enough, without any formatting - for the model to edit the nodes in a way that follows the intent of the prompt.

I think we'll do some more testing before we change anything, however, would at least changing this line...

Apply the instruction to each node independently.

..changed to 

Apply the instruction to each node independently but consider the overal context of input text and the user's prompt

Or is this not likely to achieve much?
		
ANSWER: According to GPT5.2: It won’t help much. The model still only sees each node’s text, so “consider overall context” is mostly unenforceable. If you need reliable context‑aware translation, you’ll need to include surrounding text (or full paragraph) in the input for each node, or patch at a larger unit than individual nodes.